you know ok Philippa thank you we're
going to will take you to Downing Street
now to hear from the local government
secretary Robert generate' good
afternoon and welcome to the coronavirus
press conference from Downing Street I'm
joined this evening by Steve Paris the
national medical director of NHS England
Steve will provide an update on the
latest data on coronavirus shortly but
first let me update you on the steps
we're taking to defeat it and the
decisions that we've taken today our
fight against this virus is happening
all across the country in every home and
in every community today's data shows
that four hundred and sixty thousand
four hundred and thirty seven tests for
coronavirus have now been carried out
across Great Britain including twenty
one thousand three hundred and eighty
nine tests carried out yesterday one
hundred and fourteen thousand two
hundred and seventeen people have tested
positive that's an increase of five
thousand five hundred and twenty six
cases since yesterday seventeen thousand
seven hundred and fifty nine people are
currently in hospital with coronavirus
in Great Britain down from 18 thousand
seven hundred and eleven yesterday and
sadly of those hospitalized with the
virus 15 thousand four hundred and
sixty-four have now died that's an
increase of 888 fatalities since
yesterday these are heartbreaking losses
for every family affected every part of
our government from Whitehall to your
local Town Hall is working together in
this nation
effort and nowhere is that clearer than
on the front lines of our communities
and today as communities secretary I
want to provide an update councils are
delivering essential supplies to
clinically vulnerable people those that
have asked those that we have asked to
shield themselves they're paying out
financial relief to businesses to enable
their local economies to weather the
storm as much as is possible
they're ensuring our bins continue to be
collected they're ensuring that schools
remain open for the children of key
workers and that vulnerable families are
kept in regular contact and they're
helping rough sleepers off the streets
to protect them from the virus this
effort alongside the endeavors of all
our public servants is making a
difference in this fight but I know it
is our responsibility in government to
make sure that those frontline workers
have the resources that they need to
keep up this essential work at the
beginning of this emergency
I told local councils that we would give
them the resources that they need to do
the job and I meant it and that's why
today I'm providing an additional 1.6
billion pounds of new funding to support
councils
with the pressures that they face as
they respond to covert 19 this funding
takes the total amount given to councils
to help them through the pandemic to
over 3.2 billion pounds we are backing
councils to ensure vital services such
as adult social care Children Services
support for the most vulnerable and
waste collection continue despite the
increased pressures we're also helping
Council
with the inevitable cashflow challenges
by deferring 2.6 billion pounds in
business rates payments to central
government and paying them 850 million
pounds in social care grants up front
this month working with councils and
charities we've made huge progress in
protecting the most vulnerable during
this national emergency our plan to
shield the most clinically vulnerable
people has progressed well three weeks
ago I reported at this press conference
that the first government organized
boxes of supplies had been delivered by
wholesalers to those at the highest
clinical risk across the country today
250,000 have been delivered the packages
include cereal fruit tinned Goods tea
bags biscuits toiletries and other
essentials and this coming week we
expect to be delivering 300,000 boxes
all from a standing start just a few
weeks ago and our call center is making
up to 130 thousand calls a day to those
who are shielded to see if they need the
service to see if they still need it if
they're receiving it and to ask if they
would like to move from it to a priority
delivery slot at their local supermarket
in addition to this councils are
organizing their own calls often led by
volunteers including from our 750,000
NHS volunteers to check in and to chat
to those people who are being shielded
they've also organized their own efforts
to support those who may not have one of
the clinical conditions to be shielded
but nonetheless people who are
vulnerable or isolated and there are
truly extraordinary efforts underway in
this regard in every village
in every parish in every town Ward
estate and City the length and breadth
of the country we've all been humbled by
the gestures large and small by people
across the country to show support to
those working so hard to protect the NHS
and to save lives none more so than
captain Tom Moore who has raised an
astonishing 23 million pounds this week
for NHS Charities I can't think of a
more worthy person to be the guest of
honor at the opening of the new
Nightingale Hospital in Harrogate next
week also fittingly the county of his
birth
Yorkshire I'm sure that everyone will
want to join me in thanking captain Tom
for his truly heroic efforts I've also
been very proud of the effort of
councils to help vulnerable people in
their own areas including and those
continuing to help the small number of
people still regrettably on our streets
today of course this is not the end of
rough sleeping there is still a great
deal of work to be done and my
department and I will be at the heart of
that I also want to say something about
support for our high streets and local
businesses by local councils I'm
delighted that so many cafes and
restaurants and other businesses have
taken up the opportunity to switch to
offering delivery take away and click
and Collect services this expands the
supply of food available to people
alongside the supermarket's
as well as allowing businesses though
would otherwise have closed to remain
open and to keep paying their staff this
simple freedom has been taken up by
enterprising people across the UK the
same enterprising people whose ingenuity
sometimes assisted
by government in modest ways like this
will help us to rebuild our economy
councils have worked extremely hard to
pay out over 1 billion pounds worth of
business grants from government but it's
vital though we all ensure that every
eligible business gets the support it
needs and I would urge councils to keep
up the good work and those that have
been slower in making progress to
accelerate their efforts in the days to
come let me address two other topics
that I know are of concern to local
people firstly there have been examples
of sun parks around the country closing
this cannot be right while the virus
does not discriminate
we know that the lockdown is much harder
for people who don't have a lot of
living space for people who don't have a
garden and for those who don't have
anywhere for their children to run
around people need parks that's why I've
made it clear to councils that all parks
must remain open for the health of the
nation people should be able to enjoy
safely fresh air and green space and for
the health of the nation people must
abide by social distancing rules and not
congregate in groups in those parks
secondly there have been some reports of
mourners being turned away at funerals
the tragedy of the death of Ishmael
Muhammad Abdul Wahab a 13 year old boy
from Brixton was compounded by the fact
that his family were unable to attend
his funeral that is not right and it
shouldn't have happened
for clarity funerals can go ahead with
close family present social distancing
measures must be
but families must have the opportunity
to say a respectful goodbye to those
that they love we'll be publishing more
guidance on this very soon and I'm also
asking councils to keep open or indeed
to reopen cemeteries and graveyards not
for people to congregate in that must
not happen but for people to make that
private visit to seek solace in a word
at the grave of someone that you've
loved or to privately lay flowers there
have been times in my life when I've
needed to do that and I'm certain that
there are people who need to do it today
these are small steps but small mercies
can make a difference and local councils
at their best can help to make life even
in times like these more livable and
more humane they represent and can
harness the networks of familiarity of
trust and of loyalty upon which society
is based the sense that we belong
together and that we will stand by each
other in a real emergency those
relationships can only be built from
below by people to people in communities
so to all the unsung heroes of local
councils for all you're doing for all of
us thank you
I'll now ask Steve to present the latest
data Steve thank you well as we all know
it's only by complying with the
instructions we have been given on
social distancing staying at home
avoiding contact with each other that we
will reduce the chance this virus has to
spread from one person to another and by
doing that we will see
reductions in infections and reductions
in hospital admissions and deaths and
I'm pleased to say that we continue to
see evidence that all of us are
complying with those instructions our
transport chart that we show every day
continues to show that on public
transport via national rail and London
bus and tube services we are continuing
to see a great reduction in usage and
also in motor vehicle usage during the
week and of course a different weekends
are two so that's really important and
of course it's absolutely critical that
we continue to comply with those
instructions and to do everything we can
to stop the spread of the virus in the
next chart we see the number of new
infections and you UK cases by testing
testing is expanding all the time and we
are seeing a stabilization in the number
of tests that are coming back positive
we're not seeing a growth and of course
in the context of an increasing number
of tests the next chart shows how that
is translating into hospital admissions
and I think it is now becoming clear
that we are beginning to see reductions
in the number of people with kovat 19 in
hospitals you can see that in London
that we have not now had a succession of
days where those numbers are decreasing
but also some signs in other regions
such as the Midlands so encouraging but
still early we are still in a situation
where in order to continue to see these
declines it is critical that we all
comply with the social distancing
measures that we have been instructed to
take and then finally on the last slide
as we've often said unfortunately a
reduction in the number of deaths will
be the last thing that will change but
if we continue to comply with
instructions it will change here we are
now presenting death data for hospitals
the hospital data comes rapidly we can
get back very quickly and therefore it's
right
that is published immediately but we can
also collect deaths data on debt in the
community and now you will see a second
line with some lag on it which we are
working hard to decrease the lag looking
at debts in all settings thank you thank
you very much Steve or will now come to
questions and the first question is from
Rihanna Crockford from the BBC Rihanna
hi thank you Secretary of State the BBC
understands that the government has
asked public health England to start
tracking coronavirus cases and deaths by
ethnicity can you confirm this and will
this data be made publicly available so
that further deaths can be prevented and
a question for mr. powers has been
researched now in the UK for three weeks
suggesting that coronavirus is having a
disproportionate impact on people from
ethnic minority backgrounds and we're
seeing a similar trend on an
international scale in the United States
what's your understanding so far of the
potential risk factors for these
communities and what can you tell them
well thank you Rhiannon a very important
question there does appear as you say to
be a dis rapport ssin at impact of the
virus upon BM e communities in the UK
and we've also seen that in some other
countries around the world as well and
it's for that reason that the chief
medical officer commissioned work from
public health England to better
understand this issue there are a number
of reasons for that that have been
posited and it's right that we do
thorough research swiftly so that we can
better understand it and then take any
action that is required as community
secretary I'm acutely aware of this
challenge and have been working with
different groups across the country
ensuring that the voices of Bame
communities are heard and that we are
taking steps to ease the anxiety that
they may
be feeling as we are with other
communities and faith groups across the
UK and of course we'll continue to do
that and if the work from public health
England leads us to take any further
steps of course we'll do that to keep
everybody safe in all communities
yes this is something that I'm very
concerned about and I know the chief
medical officer is concerned about - I
know he has spoken about that and I
think it's absolutely right that he's
asked public health England and who have
the expertise they have the experts to
look at this in detail and get a clear
understanding of what might be
accounting for increased risks and
increased deaths in in particular ethnic
community so I think it's important that
work is done as quickly as possible it's
also important that it's done properly
so we come to the right conclusions and
then we can offer the right support in
the right advice in NHS England
obviously we have a number of our staff
working come from those ethnic groups
and and we are actively also looking
ahead of that that were what we have to
do to support and perhaps protect them
specifically so that is work that he's
actively begun to take it at the moment
but it's a very very important question
thank you very much Rihanna the second
the second question comes from Dan Huot
from ITV Dan I've gotten I'm Secretary
of State given we are several weeks
behind Italy Spain and other countries
and we know the impact this virus has on
health workers how have we found
ourselves in a situation where we are
dangerously low on PPE on personal
protective and equip doctors our nurses
are has been asked to use disposable and
PPE has to be used PP that shouldn't be
designed to be used several at times
this is a global demand we know for PPE
but given we know that that that's not
new why hasn't the government had a plan
B here getting small medium larger
manufacturers to produce PPE say some
say they want to but they haven't been
contacted by the government and a
question to both of you and do you
accept the worries of NHS
- the nurses we've spoken to today that
by downgrading your PPE guidelines by
not providing proper PPE you are putting
their lives at greater risk well thank
you Dan for the question look we're all
I think across the country in all of the
work that people are doing on the front
line in the NHS in social care which is
particularly important to me as the
secretary of state with responsibility
for communities and local government and
in other settings as well and nobody
wants to see people having to go to work
on the front line to do that work
concerned that they don't have the
protective equipment that they need and
deserve or coming home from work worried
about whether there'll be equipment
available to them tomorrow we've got to
do more to get the PPE that people need
to the frontline this is an extremely
challenging situation as you say there's
massive global demand for the equipment
this is a global pandemic but we are
trying to do everything we can to get
the equipment that we need we're trying
to source more internationally that is
difficult at times there is a great deal
of demand for it and the security of
that supply can prove very challenging
but we are making progress there and in
fact today I can report that a very
large consignment of PPE is due to
arrive in the UK tomorrow from Turkey
which amounts to 84 merely 84 tonnes of
PPE and will include for example 400,000
gowns so a very significant additional
shipment but demand is also very high
we are working with British
manufacturers to ensure that they can
make a contribution and we you've heard
of some of the more prominent ones like
Burberry
and barber but there are many SMEs as
well being involved in that and my
department is also involved in trying to
ensure that the supplies that we have
get out not just to the NHS critical
though that is but also to social care
often to smaller
establishments like care homes all
across the country is over 50,000 health
care settings like that in the country
and we're using local resilience forums
backed by almost 200 military planners
to do the logistical task of taking the
stocks that we do have and getting them
to the front line but I completely
accept that this is extremely
challenging supply in some areas
particularly gowns and certain types of
masks and aprons is in short supply at
the moment and that must be an extremely
anxious time for people working on the
front line but they should be assured
that we are doing everything we can to
correct this issue and to get them the
equipment that they need Steve do you
want to say something about yes it was
publicized today so I'm a doctor I've
worked for many years on the front line
and I can absolutely assure you that for
me and my clinical colleagues this is
very personal these are my friends these
are my colleagues these are some of my
extended family so I absolutely hear
directly the concerns that clinicians
have to ensure that they have the right
PPE a couple of weeks ago public health
England worked very hard with
professional groups professional
colleagues such as the Kadima medic
Academy of Medical Royal College the
Royal College of Nursing and others to
ensure that we had a set of guidance
that was professionally agreed and was
the best possible guidance for the stage
of the epidemic we've reached taking
into account what we've learned for the
virus and in order to ensure that that
guidance can be followed it's absolutely
critical above everything else that we
have the supplies of PPE going out to
frontline I know government is working
incredibly hard to get those that
procurement in as you have heard but
what I hear from my clinical colleagues
is that what they need is is PP
delivered to the frontline to follow the
guidance that was agreed with them two
weeks ago thank you does that answer
your question Dan I was would you like
to follow up on the gowns I think you
said 400,000 mean delivered in X company
that only covers three days worth of
supply for the National Health Service
the use about hundred 55,000 day so
that's a small amount given this is
going to go on for several weeks a month
so now you know you talked about SMEs
being used to produce PPE but that's not
the message we're getting from business
there are many SMEs who have been asking
the government and saying yeah we can
help do this and yet they've heard
absolutely nothing back I mean can you
name some SMEs that the government is
used in the past few weeks to try and
get some of this this stuff to the
frontline well we want to work with all
manufacturers in the UK that are able to
produce this if there are businesses
particularly SMEs who feel that they
haven't been listened to that their
requests haven't been met with the
correct answer then I would please urge
them to get back in contact with us this
is a huge national effort as I say we're
working internationally as hard as we
possibly can
our missions around the world in
countries like China for example are
doing everything they can to source the
PPE that we need and bring it to the UK
businesses here are playing their part
as well we've published extra guidance
such as the one that Stephen Stephen is
spoken about now but I don't
underestimate the scale of the challenge
as you say demand is extremely high and
quantities are in huge demand
internationally but we'll continue to
work as hard as we possibly can and
those health care workers who are on the
frontline again should know that we
completely understand their anxiety and
we're doing all we can to try to get
them the equipment that they need as
quickly as possible can I take that the
next question please from Deborah Haynes
from Skye Debra thank you very much and
if you'll excuse another question about
PPE please this one I'd like to director
professor Powis we've been speaking to
someone who works in ICU at a major
covert trauma center and he's been
describing to us supplies literally
being on the brink of running out why is
that
a national shortage is it a failure to
to stockpile in the first place is it a
failure of the supply chain to buy and
distribute efficiently or is it the fact
that we have just put too much reliance
on China for these sorts of inputs and a
question for the secretary of state if I
may on a different subject how come you
are able to complete to claim that your
house in Herefordshire is your main home
when your children go to school in
London and your wife also works in
London shouldn't you really apologize to
people for seeming to have broken the
rules there well she'll answer your your
your second question first and then hand
over to Steve well as I as I explained
at the time I joined my family at our
home in Herefordshire as soon as I was
able to do so as soon as we made the
decision there was no longer necessary
to work in person in Westminster and
I've been there like millions of people
across the country since I've been
working from home and I returned to
Westminster last night to do this press
conference and because Parliament
returns next week and I also delivered
some medicines to my parents who are
elderly and ourself isolating and again
that's entirely within the guidelines
and if I wouldn't want people to feel
concerned that they can't do something
like that to help their own parents or
elderly relatives who are in need we all
need to follow the social distancing
guidelines I try to do that but I
appreciate that it is challenging for
many people and for many families and
that the lockdown doesn't affect
everybody equally and that's one of the
reasons why this evening for example
I've said how important parks are and
how I'm using my role as secretary of
state in local government to make small
adjustments that make the lockdown more
bearable and more socially just for as
long as it continues Steve so I think on
the broader issue of PPE
yes we the government does stockpile PPE
for pandemics and that has been
incredibly important and useful in our
response to this but as you hinted at
this is a global crisis a global
emergency and there is undoubtedly a
strain on supply chains for PPE as I
said the government and the Department
of Health in particular are working very
hard to secure that you've heard about a
shipment that's coming in tomorrow but
there is quite a strain on on the global
supply what's important is that the
government works as hard as possible
because as I said a few minutes ago I
know as a doctor that what is critical
for those ICU colleagues is that we
ensure that they get the appropriate
supply of PPE it does vary
you've heard about gowns but face masks
the FFP three face masks that are really
important in ITU I understand we do have
a good supply and a good stock of now so
it is important that we continue to do
that procurement and get that stock up
because that is what gives our staff
confidence on the front line if you've
said very good thank you very much and
the next question is from David Wooding
of the Sun Dave
good afternoon secular state question
for both both of you really
Sir Patrick balance told the House of
Commons Health Select Committee recently
that each death from Kobe 19 equates to
approximately a thousand cases so given
that 15,000 464 people have sadly died
in UK hospitals so far would it be a
fair estimate that about 15 million
people have so far been infected by the
virus and what does that mean for herd
immunity and if I may be permitted just
to add a sneaky second one reports
another country show that outcomes from
people who are go onto ventilators early
are much better and this week Efron gave
approval to produce more so how many are
we producing and how fast and how
quickly will we see them in use in our
hospitals well thanks very much Dave I
mean as I understand it the comments
that your
going to were made by the chief
scientific adviser some time ago there's
obviously a very fast-moving situation
and we're learning more every day about
the virus and gaining more data and
Steve Pat scan is better place to to
explain that but more recently Sir
Patrick and others I think have advised
us that the percentage of the population
who have had the virus is likely to be
significantly lower than what you've
just described
perhaps in in single figures but Steve
better place to to explain that the oil
yes if I remember correctly he gave that
figure a number of weeks ago at an
earlier stage of the epidemic and that
would have been based on modeling data
and information that we had about about
infection rates in other countries and
hospitalizations for instance I think
what's important now as we're a few
weeks further on is actually getting the
the real number as two infections in the
community and that is best done by
testing antibodies ie testing people who
have developed the or caught the virus
and then developed an immune response
and have got antibodies in their blood
we're beginning to see some studies from
other countries that are doing that it's
not straightforward
firstly because the tests are still
being worked out and we don't have the
perfect test for antibodies yet secondly
we don't know how many people produce
antibodies when they've had the virus
and how when they produce it and how
long those antibodies last for but
that's the important information that
will give us an actual figure which is
much more closer to the actual number of
infections that work mr. Patrick has
said is ongoing in the UK at the moment
so we can have that information for the
UK rather than relying on other
countries it will be a very important
piece of information in terms of
plotting our way forward and planning
for the next few months but I think as
I've said that is a I think rather than
going back to what we said a few weeks
ago when we were in the early stages
what's important is to
be the actual an actual handle on the
number using the techniques that I've
just described great and you also asked
about ventilators we as of today there
are ten thousand six hundred and six
ventilators within the NHS as I
understand it a hundred and ninety of
those have come from the new UK
suppliers who rose to the challenge that
the Prime Minister and the health
secretary set to British industry to use
all their ingenuity and engineering
skills to to turn their attention to
this task I think the most important
point and Steve may wish to add to this
the most important point to say is that
there is sufficient capacity today in
the NHS there are sufficient ventilators
and although you could never exactly
predict the future trajectory of the
virus we're increasingly confident that
there will be sufficient ventilator
capacity in the NHS in the weeks and
months ahead which is obviously hugely
reassuring to all of us because just a
few weeks ago that was one of our great
concerns would we have that capacity it
seems like we have and of course there
are more ventilators coming on board
from those UK suppliers and
internationally as well in the days
ahead yes so I don't think we are not
constrained by ventilators at present
and we've in the NHS constantly striven
to make sure that we have the capacity
to manage the surge in patients that
we've seen and I'm really proud that our
staff have done that
I think on the broader point as you
would expect with a new disease and new
virus our clinicians are learning about
the management of patients all the time
we have some of the best critical care
doctors and clinicians in the world in
this country some of the best chefs with
spirit Ori Laden physicians in the world
and they I'm absolutely confident they
will be giving all patients the best
possible care but we are learning which
particular sort of ventilation which
particular mode of ventilation
works the best so so one example that
you will have seen is it's not always
necessary to put
people on to ventilation where they need
to be intubated have a tube and go on a
chemical ventilator although that is
absolutely necessary in many cases
sometimes you can manage the the problem
with the opposite in the lungs through a
tight fitting mass so called CPAP
continuous pressure airways ventilation
and and we are learning all the time who
might be more suitable for that and and
who might be suitable for other forms of
treatment that's an international effort
so so eye doctor for many years in my
specialty kidney disease I spent many
many a lot of time talking to my
colleagues around the world learning
from them and they would learn from us
that's how medicine works you learn
through international collaboration so
I'm absolutely confident that our
critical care clinicians if I know they
are are not only talking amongst
themselves and discussing what they're
learning but are also talking with their
colleagues around the world and that
will continue to evolve we will continue
to learn more about the optimum
treatment and management for patients
with Kovac 19 does that answer your
question Dave yes thank you very detail
thank you brilliant thank you very much
and the next question comes from David
Maddox of the Express David good
afternoon
secretary of state first of all Israel
an update on the Prime Minister's health
and has he been up to speak to any
ministers in the last week since he was
released from hospital looking also at
the graphs that you presented today I
question to both of you really there's
obviously a significant reduction
particularly in London on hospital
admissions we've had a series of big
announcements on vaccines PPE and
testing are we finally on the front foot
in the battle against this virus or are
we still running to catch up and finally
sorry if I may one quick other one when
we do come to loosening the lockdown
obviously people are going to be feeling
quite nervous and it's going to a great
deal of anxiety still about going out is
really fought on how
people can be given confidence but it
will be safe thank you well as regards
the the Prime Minister's you know he's
resting and recuperating at Chequers
he's taking his doctor's advice he has
had some contact with ministers but
mostly with his private office here at
Downing Street and that's absolutely
right I mean we all wish him well and
hope that he takes the time to to get
better as quickly as he possibly can in
the interim the first secretary Dominic
Rob the Foreign Secretary is leading
he's chairing the cabinet meetings and
the other important covert response
meetings that are happening every day
and with us as a cabinet taking
important decisions for example as you
say the decision this week to extend the
lockdown measures for a further three
weeks and so that's absolutely right
as regards to where we are I mean I let
Steve talk to the numbers as he sees
them but it is absolutely correct that
the hard work the forbearance the
fortitude of the British public is
paying off the rates of transmission in
the community are falling and there's a
number of positive indicators which give
us cause for hope and to believe that
there is light at the end of the tunnel
but nonetheless the number of deaths
that I've announced today remains
extremely sobering and more and more of
us I think across the country know
somebody who has been unwell more of our
lives have been touched by this virus as
every day goes by and I think that just
reinforces to us all the need to
consider this moment as the one to keep
going
don't lose what's been hard won over the
last few weeks
keep adhering to the measures keep
respecting the advice from the
clinicians and if we do that together as
a society then in the weeks to come
there may be opportunities to begin very
course
to ease the lockdown measures but that
day is not today
as the first secretary said just a few
days ago Steve yes oh so it is
encouraging as you pointed out that we
are beginning to see a reduction in the
number of hospitalized people who are
hospitalized with kovat 19 and in London
as I said and as you pointed out ease is
where we are beginning to see it
earliest but that's only happening as I
also said because all of us are
complying with the social distancing
instructions and if we have begun to get
on the front foot in complying with
those instructions
I think what's absolutely critical as
the Sechrist ATIS said is to ensure that
we don't go onto the back throat and we
don't we don't lose all the benefit that
has been gained because this is not
something that he's that he's going to
be dealt with in a matter of weeks this
is something that will require getting
onto the front foot and remaining on the
front foot for a good period of time and
so what's absolutely critical though we
are encouraged and though there is
evidence that the that following the
instructions following the social
distancing guidance is beginning to
result in benefit we absolutely need to
keep that up this is not the time to
rest on our laurels to think that we got
on the front foot of the measures
whenever that is the right time to be
deployed well a great deal of work is
going on within government to consider
how one might do that Steve and his
colleagues within the NHS are experts at
Sage and others are working with us
across government to prepare to see
what's happening in other countries and
what were the best steps that we could
take in the future but as Steve says
that that moment isn't today and the
present situation remains finally
balanced and we don't want to waste the
hard work and sacrifice that's happened
in recent weeks so the message very much
to everybody watching at home today is
continue
to pay heed to the advice continue to
follow our message which is to stay at
home to protect the NHS and to save
lives if we do that then we can look
forward to loosening and a gradual
return to normality in the weeks and
months ahead the last question I have
today is from Vic Matunuck who is from
The Voice Vic Secretary of State many
thanks I like to ask two questions if I
may
the first I'd like to address to mr.
powers and in the second to yourself mr.
powers in your answer earlier confirming
the fact that there will be a formal
inquiry into the fact that Kovac 19
seems to be having such a
disproportionate effect from people on
from black minority ethnic communities
you mentioned that there would be a
number of experts who will be involved
in that inquiry could you tell us or
give us any indication of who those
experts might be if there's a timeline
for the inquiry of what the scope will
be the second question I'd like to
address to new secretary of state there
appear to be some concerns expressed
over the last few weeks about the fact
that the hostile immigration policy that
was such a big part of the windrow
scandal is curbing the government's
ability to spread the curbing the
government's ability to so really stop
the spread of the pandemic we've seen
enough in a last few weeks that there
have been a number of really tragic
cases of undocumented migrants who have
developed chronic virus symptoms have
passed those symptoms on to members of
their families and in many cases have
been too afraid to seek medical help
either because they may be deported they
may lose a job they may even have their
families evicted from wherever they're
living one of the the real kind of
concerns about this has been expressed
by a number of MPs actually you may know
that there has been
a group of cross party MPs who have
written to the government urging the
government to drop NHS immigration
checks and also drop charging of
migrants for health care so I wanted to
ask will the government heed heed that
call very good thank you well first as I
said in answer to an earlier question
we're very concerned about the
apparently disproportionate impact of
the virus upon beim communities and
certain ethnic minorities and it's right
that the review that's been commissioned
by the chief medical officer happens as
swiftly as possible clearly it needs to
take the best possible advice and gather
the right data so that it comes to the
most accurate conclusions to inform how
we continue to treat people and to
manage the virus in the months ahead
because the virus in one form another
will be with us for for a long time
until there's a vaccine at least and
allow Steve to say so more if he has it
on how that review will be done we're
acutely aware of the anxiety within
certain communities as a community
secretary that's extremely important to
me and that's why we're trying to reach
out to all communities across the
country to hear their concerns as we
formulate particular policies for
example faith groups as we consider some
of the arrangements that I described
earlier in my opening remarks about how
we treat people's funerals and the way
that families can mourn for individuals
that they've lost we are i have heard a
number of representations about those
people who do not currently have
recourse to public funds who've come an
undocumented way from from other
countries the government's policy on
that hasn't changed but there is the
ability for local councils to make
sensible decisions based on the risk to
life that there may be in a small number
of cases and that's for example the way
that I know many councils regularly
treat real concerns for exam
with rough sleepers in winter and it's
the way that those councils would
approach this situation as well as
regard to the broader question about the
NHS and a very large number of people
who come from all over the world to work
within it and to contribute well I think
a an emergency like this does remind us
again of the incredibly important
contribution that they make to the NHS
to social care and to our broader
society that's why steps like the NHS
visa for example are very important so
that we can help people who want to come
to the UK who want to work in those
services to come here to play their part
and to feel honoured and appreciated by
our society for the contribution that
they're making yes so as I said earlier
and as you've just heard the chief
medical officer has commissioned this
review from public health England public
health England do have experts within
that organisation who in this area but
I'm sure the chief medical officer will
also want to ensure that other expertise
is drawn in from other academic groups
or other areas that have expertise too I
can't give you the names I'm afraid but
I do know that the chief medical officer
is working on that with the medical
director of public health England fessor
Yvonne Doyle he was on this podium
yesterday and I do know that he wants
this to be done as quickly as possible
but also to be done rigorously to ensure
that it is done appropriately the right
answers the right conclusions are drawn
and it's the correct experts and the
right experts who who do who are who are
able to look at this very good thank you
thank you very much for your question
well that concludes this evenings press
conference thank you very much indeed
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dr. dot UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News